Weaviate Docs (#15224)
DataDog/integrations-core: weaviate/README.md

### Installation

The Weaviate check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package. No additional installation is needed on your server.

**Note**: This check requires Agent v7.47.0+.

### Configuration

> Weaviate can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent can collect these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection from any or all of the components. For the required configurations, please refer to the [Weaviate documentation][11].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Weaviate can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent collects these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection from any or all of the components. For the required configurations, see the [RESTful API][11] page in the Weaviate documentation.
```

Author: I touched up this one a bit. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Thanks, looks good pending one minor suggestion -- it's advised not to use `please` in the documentation ([style guide](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#words-and-phrases))

> In addition, a small subset of metrics can be collected by communicating with different [API endpoints][12].

Reviewer: Could you clarify `different API endpoints`? Based on the link provided, are these OpenMetrics endpoints?

Reviewer: Got it, thanks for clarifying. What metrics would be available from these endpoints, and why would users want to collect them? Would it be possible to list the metrics, or maybe provide some examples?

Author: @buraizu I added a few lines in regards to each endpoint.

**Note**: This check uses [OpenMetrics][12] for metric collection, which requires Python 3.

#### Containerized
##### Metric collection

> Make sure that the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed in your Weaviate cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the [Weaviate documentation][11]. In order for the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Weaviate pods need to be annotated. For more information about annotations, refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options by reviewing the [sample weaviate.d/conf.yaml][4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus-formatted metrics must be exposed in your Weaviate cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the [RESTful API page][11] in the Weaviate documentation. In order for the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Weaviate pods need to be annotated. Refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options in the [sample weaviate.d/conf.yaml][4] file.
```

> Note: The listed metrics can only be collected if they are available. Some metrics are generated only when certain actions are performed. For example, the object deletion metric will be exposed only when an object is deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The listed metrics can only be collected if they are available. Some metrics are generated only when certain actions are performed. For example, the object deletion metric is exposed only when an object is deleted.
```

The two most important parameters for configuring the Weaviate check are as follows:

> - `openmetrics_endpoint`: This parameter should be set to the location where the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed. The default port is 2112, but it can be configured using the PROMETHEUS_MONITORING_PORT [environment variable][10]. In containerized environments, `%%host%%` can be used for host autodetection [3]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openmetrics_endpoint`: This parameter should be set to the location where the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed. The default port is `2112`, but it can be configured using the `PROMETHEUS_MONITORING_PORT` [environment variable][10]. In containerized environments, `%%host%%` can be used for [host autodetection][3]. 
```

> - `weaviate_api_endpoint`: This parameter is optional. By default, this parameter is set to <hostname>:8080 and it specifies the configuration of the [RESTful API][11].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `weaviate_api_endpoint`: This parameter is optional. By default, this parameter is set to `<hostname>:8080` and it specifies the configuration of the [RESTful API][11].
```

> If authentication is required for the RESTful API endpoints, the check can be configured to provide an API key as part of the [request header][13].

Reviewer: Is there another link that might work in this case? From past experience, I've seen that when `conf.yaml` files are updated, links with line ranges no longer point to the correct content and can become confusing.

Author: Are you referring to link 13? I think it should be safe. I've pinned it to a specific branch of the agent that is already released. So unless we port something back it should be relatively safe. I think the one that might change the most is master, which I avoided using. Let me know if that helps. If not I can go back a few versions more.

Reviewer: Thanks for confirming -- and yes, I was referring to link 13. I'm fine with that if it's expected to be stable, but wanted to flag just in case.

### Installation

The Weaviate check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package. No additional installation is needed on your server.

**Note**: This check requires Agent v7.47.0 or later.

### Configuration

Weaviate can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent can collect these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection for your Weaviate instances. For the required configurations to expose the Prometheus metrics, see the [Monitoring][10] page in the Weaviate documentation.

In addition, a small subset of metrics can be collected by communicating with different [API endpoints][11]. Specifically:
- `/v1/meta`: Version information

> - `/v1/nodes`: Node specific metrics such as objects and shards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/v1/nodes`: Node-specific metrics such as objects and shards
```

- `/v1/.well-known`: HTTP response time and service liveness

**Note**: This check uses [OpenMetrics][12] for metric collection, which requires Python 3.

#### Containerized
##### Metric collection

> Make sure that the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed in your Weaviate cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the instructions on the [Monitoring][10] page in the Weaviate documentation. In order for the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Weaviate pods need to be annotated. For more information about annotations, refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options by reviewing the [sample weaviate.d/conf.yaml][4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the Prometheus-formatted metrics are exposed in your Weaviate cluster. You can configure and customize this by following the instructions on the [Monitoring][10] page in the Weaviate documentation. For the Agent to start collecting metrics, the Weaviate pods need to be annotated. For more information about annotations, refer to the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][3] for guidance. You can find additional configuration options by reviewing the [sample weaviate.d/conf.yaml][4]
```

The Weaviate check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package. No additional installation is needed on your server.

**Note**: This check requires Agent v7.47.0 or later.

### Configuration

Weaviate can be configured to expose Prometheus-formatted metrics. The Datadog Agent can collect these metrics using the integration described below. Follow the instructions to configure data collection for your Weaviate instances. For the required configurations to expose the Prometheus metrics, please refer to the [Monitoring][10] page in the Weaviate documentation.

> In addition, a small subset of metrics can be collected by communicating with different [API endpoints][11]. Specifically the /v1/meta, /v1/nodes and /v1/.well-known endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, a small subset of metrics can be collected by communicating with different [API endpoints][11]. Specifically the `/v1/meta`, `/v1/nodes` and `/v1/.well-known` endpoints.
```
